## What Is the Difference Between Push, Pull, and Fetch?

- `git push` - sends changes from a local branch to a remote repo
- `git fetch` - gets changes from a remote repo into your tracking branch
- `git pull` - gets changes from a remote branch into your tracking branch and merges them into a local branch

You might think of `git push` and `git pull` as equivalent. This isn't entirely correct, since `git pull` does two things. `git push` takes your current branch and checks to see whether there is a tracking branch for a remote repository connected to it. If so, git takes the changes from your branch and pushes those changes to the remote branch. This is how you share code with a remote repository; you can think of it as "make the remote branch resemble my local branch". This operation succeeds only if the remote branch has not diverged from your local branch. That means all the commits in the remote branch are also in your local branch. If you have local changes that you have not pushed to the remote repositiry, then you need to synchronize your local branch with the remote branch. You can do this in a single operation with git pull, or you can use two operations, combing git fetch and git merge, to do the same thing. `git fetch` again takes your current branch and checks to see if there is a tracking branch. If so, it looks for changes in the remote branch, and pulls them into the tracking branch. It does not change your local branch. To do that, you need to do `git merge origin/master` (for the "master" branch) to merge those changes into your branch - probably also called "master". `git pull` simply does a `git fetch` followed immediately by `git merge`. This is often what you want to do, but you might want to use git fetch followed by git merge to make sure you understand the changes you are merging into your branch before the merge happens.